---
layout: default
title: iOS Optical Character Recognition
---

{{ page.title }}
================
<p class='meta'>{{ page.date | date_to_string }} - San Diego</p>

This post will provide the information and tools necessary to get [Tesseract](http://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/), an open-source OCR framework, running on the latest version of iOS.

There seems to be a myriad of different projects on GitHub that attempt to provide a small example application that runs Tesseract successfully and produces output, however some of these utilize an older version of Tesseract or just don't cut it for me. Sadly I couldn't find an end-to-end solution. There's no framework in place so that when the next version of Tesseract comes out, updating your iOS application is as simple as downloading the latest source.

Luckily I found a couple sources of information the proved to be very, very beneficial. So let's start!

## Cross compilation ##
Creating binaries across different architecture is required so that we can support not only iOS but the emulator in XCode. In this case, we'll be compiling under arm6, arm7, and i386. This should allow us to play around with our future app on the emulator and support newer and older hardware versions.

Fortunately, there's has already been some excellent work on this front. A combination of [this](http://tinsuke.wordpress.com/2011/11/01/how-to-compile-and-use-tesseract-3-01-on-ios-sdk-5/) and [this](http://tinsuke.wordpress.com/2011/02/17/how-to-cross-compiling-libraries-for-ios-armv6armv7i386/) provided the bits we need for a handy dandy bash script that will handle compilation. If you want to learn a little more about the flags and other workings of the script check out the code or just read those two blog posts. Excellent explanations of every itty bitty part.

What I wanted was a one-line install similar to how [npm](http://npmjs.org/) installs itself. Zero effort and seamless. Pecking around for source tarballs or dependencies is just time that I won't get to play around with Tesseract! So to begin the process, just do this:

{% highlight bash %}
curl http://a5huynh.github.com/files/tesseract-build.sh | sh
{% endhighlight %}

This script will create the directories required, download the latest Tesseract/Leptican source, and compile the binaries needed to start using Tesseract with iOS.

## Using Tesseract ##

Hopefully, everything went well in the last step ( if not, feel free to shoot me an email with your errors/problems and I'll modify the script to fix the issues ).

## The Code! ##